Adding static analysis topic from wiki (#8547)
magento/devdocs: src/guides/v2.3/test/static/static-analysis.md

---
group: testing
title: Setting up static analysis
functional_areas:
  - Testing
  - test
---

## Introduction

This document provides setup steps to get most static analyzers that are used in our build pipeline working locally in PHPStorm.  This guide is written specifically for those using PHPStorm on MacOS.

## Before you begin

> If you haven't already, make sure that node and npm are installed. Then, in the Magento root directory, run `npm install`.  After installation, ensure there is a `node_modules` directory in the root of your project before proceeding.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you haven't already, make sure that Node and NPM are installed. Then, in the Magento root directory, run `npm install`.  After installation, ensure there is a `node_modules` directory in the root of your project before proceeding.
```

Author: Those are generally accepted as lowercase.

Reviewer: In that case (please add @hguthrie's suggestion for emphasis)

> If you haven't already, make sure that node and npm are installed. Then, in the Magento root directory, run `npm install`.  After installation, ensure there is a `node_modules` directory in the root of your project before proceeding.

Reviewer 2: No contractions, and maybe can emphasize node and npm with code style.

```suggestion
If you have not already, verify that `node` and `npm` are installed. Then, in the Magento root directory, run `npm install`.  After installation, ensure there is a `node_modules` directory in the root of your project before proceeding.
```

{:bs-callout-info}
For all of the static configuration installations below involving the PHPStorm Preferences dialog, make sure you are clicking the "Apply" button before clicking "OK" to close the Preferences dialog.

## Javascript Code Style check

{:.bs-callout-info}
JSCS is deprecated in PHPStorm 2020.2. It must be installed via a plugin.

> 

Author: Hmm...not familiar with the procedure title.

1. Click the "Configuration File" radio button and in the adjacent input field enter the path to the JSCS file Magento uses, which is located in `dev/tests/static/testsuite/Magento/Test/Js/_files/jscs/.jscsrc`.

![JSCS config]({{site.baseurl}}/common/images/static-jscs.png)

To verify it works, in any JS file add `snake_case: [],` to any object literal and you should see warning about object key not being camel cased.

## ESLint

1. Go to PHPStorm preferences > Languages & Frameworks > JavaScript > Code Quality Tools > ESLint.
1. Click the "Manual ESLint configuration" radio button.
1. Fill in the adjacent input fields with the path to your node binary (the result of outputting `which node` in your terminal).
1. Enter the path to your ESLint package: `[magento_root]/node_modules/eslint`
1. Click the "Configuration File" radio button and in the adjacent input field enter the path to the ESLint file Magento uses, which is located in `dev/tests/static/testsuite/Magento/Test/Js/_files/eslint/.eslintrc-magento`.

See the image below for example configuration:

![ESLint]({{site.baseurl}}/common/images/static-eslint.png)

> To verify it works, in any JS file add `/** Hello world */` as a doc comment to any method you should see warning about the comment being on one line

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To verify it works, in any JS file add `/** Hello world */` as a doc comment to any method, you should see a warning about the comment being on one line.
```

> To verify it works, in any JS file add `/** Hello world */` as a doc comment to any method, you should see a warning about the comment being on one line.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To verify it works, in any JS file add `/** Hello world */` as a doc comment to any method, and you should see a warning about the comment being on one line.
```

## PHPCS

1. Go to PHPStorm preferences > Languages & Frameworks > PHP > Quality Tools > PHP_CodeSniffer.
1. Click the `...` button to bring up another configuration modal.
1. Enter the PHP_CodeSniffer path: `[magento_root]/vendor/bin/phpcs`

### Configuring for Magento Coding Standard

1. Go to the [Magento Coding Standard GitHub Repository](https://github.com/magento/magento-coding-standard)
1. Follow instructions within the README to install the Magento Coding Standard for PHPCS.  Verify it is installed with `vendor/bin/phpcs -i`.  You should see `Magento2` in the output.
1. Go to PHPStorm preferences > Editor > Inspections, and in the adjacent window go to PHP > Quality Tools > PHP_CodeSniffer validation.

> 1. Under Coding Standard dropdown, select Magento2.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Under Coding Standard dropdown, select `Magento2`.
```

> 1. Under Coding Standard dropdown, select `Magento2`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Under **Coding Standard** dropdown, select `Magento2`.
```

See the image below for example configuration:

![PHPCS]({{site.baseurl}}/common/images/static-codesniff.png)

> To verify it works, add the following PHP snippet: `$base = basename($_SERVER['SCRIPT_FILENAME']);`.  It should give you a warning about use of `basename` being forbidden as well as use of superglobals.

Reviewer 2: Changing wording for consistency.

```suggestion
To verify it works, add the following PHP snippet: `$base = basename($_SERVER['SCRIPT_FILENAME']);`.  You should see a warning that the use of `basename` is forbidden, as well as the use of _superglobals_.
```

## PHPMD

1. Go to PHPStorm preferences > Languages & Frameworks > PHP > Quality Tools > Mess Detector.
1. Click the `...` button to bring up another configuration modal.
1. Enter the PHP Mess Detector path: `[magento_root]/vendor/phpmd/phpmd/src/bin/phpmd`

> 1. Go to PHPStorm preferences > Editor > Inspections, and in the adjacent window go to  > PHP > Quality Tools > PHP Mess Detector validation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Go to PHPStorm preferences > Editor > Inspections and in the adjacent window go to  > PHP > Quality Tools > PHP Mess Detector validation.
```

1. Under custom rulesets, add the path to the PHPMD ruleset Magento uses: `[magento_root]/dev/tests/static/testsuite/Magento/Test/Php/_files/phpmd/ruleset.xml`

See the image below for example configuration:

![PHPMD]({{site.baseurl}}/common/images/static-md.png)

> To verify it works, add an unused private method to a class and you should see a warning from PHPMD about it not being used.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To verify it works, add an unused private method to a class, and you should see a warning from PHPMD about it not being used.
```

---
group: testing
title: Setting up static analysis
functional_areas:
  - Testing
  - test
---

## Introduction

This topic provides steps to set up most static analyzers that are used in our build pipeline to work in your local PHPStorm environment. This guide is written specifically for those using PHPStorm on MacOS.

## Before you begin

If you have not already, verify that `node` and `npm` are installed. Then, in the Magento root directory, run `npm install`.  After installation, ensure there is a `node_modules` directory in the root of your project before proceeding.

{:bs-callout-info}
For all of the static configuration installations below involving the PHPStorm Preferences dialog, make sure you are clicking the "Apply" button before clicking "OK" to close the Preferences dialog.

## Javascript Code Style check

{:.bs-callout-info}

> JSCS is deprecated in PHPStorm 2020.2. You must install the JSCS plugin.
> {:.procedure}
> To install the JSCS plugin:
> 1. Go to PHPStorm preferences > Languages & Frameworks > JavaScript > Code Quality Tools > JSCS.

Reviewer 2: Just need the blank lines here.
```suggestion
JSCS is deprecated in PHPStorm 2020.2. You must install the JSCS plugin.

{:.procedure}
To install the JSCS plugin:

1. Go to PHPStorm preferences > Languages & Frameworks > JavaScript > Code Quality Tools > JSCS.
```
